[DOCS-1295] Adding a pipeline best practices guide (#2533)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/book/pipeline/pipeline-best-practices.adoc

---
layout: section
title: Pipeline Best Practices
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:notitle:
:description:
:author: Alex Taylor
:email: jenkinsci-docs@googlegroups.com
:sectanchors:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
:hide-uri-scheme:
:toc:
endif::[]

= Applying best practices to Pipelines

> This guide provides a small selection of best practices for pipelines that are the most common mistakes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide provides a small selection of best practices for pipelines and points out some common mistakes. 
```

Pipelines, as their complexity increases (the amount of Groovy code, number of steps used, etc.), require more resources (CPU, memory, storage) on the master.
Think of Pipeline as a tool to accomplish a build rather than the core of a build.

Example: Using a single Maven build step to drive the build through its build/test/deploy process.

=== Avoiding complex Groovy code in Pipelines

For a Pipeline, Groovy code *always* executes on master which means using master resources(memory and CPU). 
Therefore, it is critically important to reduce the amount of Groovy code executed by Pipelines (this includes any methods called on classes imported in Pipelines).
The following are the most common example Groovy methods to avoid using:
. *JsonSlurper:* This function (and some other similar ones like XmlSlurper or readFile) can be used to read from a file on disk, parse the data from that file into a JSON object, and inject that object into a Pipeline using a command like JsonSlurper().parseText(readFile("$LOCAL_FILE")). This command loads the local file into memory on the master twice and, if the file is very large or the command is executed frequently, will require a lot of memory.

> .. Solution: Instead of using JsonSlurper, use a shell step and return the standard out. This shell would look something like this: `def JsonReturn = sh label: '', returnStdout: true, script: 'echo "$LOCAL_FILE"| jq "$PARSING_QUERY"'`. This will use agent resources to read the file and the $PARSING_QUERY will help pare down the file into a smaller size.

Reviewer 2: did you mean parse?
```suggestion
.. Solution: Instead of using JsonSlurper, use a shell step and return the standard out. This shell would look something like this: `def JsonReturn = sh label: '', returnStdout: true, script: 'echo "$LOCAL_FILE"| jq "$PARSING_QUERY"'`. This will use agent resources to read the file and the $PARSING_QUERY will help parse down the file into a smaller size.
```

---
layout: section
title: Pipeline Best Practices
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:notitle:
:description:
:author: Alex Taylor
:email: jenkinsci-docs@googlegroups.com
:sectanchors:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
:hide-uri-scheme:
:toc:
endif::[]

Pipeline Best Practices:

> Q: How do I scale pipelines so that they are not using too many resources on the master?

Reviewer 3: Do we want it in the Question/answer format or a sub-title within `Pipeline Best Practices`? e.g. `Scaling Jenkins master` and this list set of things to do to achieve this?

. **Where Does groovy execute?:** First concept that needs to be discussed is that Groovy code *always* executes on master resources. This means that any time groovy methods are being used, the code will be executed by the master and use master memory/CPU. Because of this, the most critical action item is to reduce the number of groovy calls that need to be made (this includes how many imports of groovy methods being used). The most common example methods are things like:

> .. JsonSlurper: This would be to read in some file which is on disk into a JSON object within the pipeline so it would look something like this: `def JsonFile = new JsonSlurper().parseText(readFile("$LOCAL_FILE")))`. The issue here is that this loads that file into memory 2x on the master and if that file is very large or this command is being done very often then it will drain a lot of unnecessary memory

Reviewer 3: Should it list other well knows examples `XMLSlurper`, readFile step etc.?

. **Just say no to Custom Pipeline Steps:** Wherever possible stay away from Customized/overwritten Pipeline Steps. This is the process where the standard pipeline APIs like `sh` or `timeout` are overwritten using shared libraries
.. This is dangerous because the pipeline APIs can change at any time causing custom code to break or give different results than expected
.. It can become difficult to troubleshoot when something is breaking or causing issues
.. Because of the ubiquitous use of these steps throughout pipelines, if something is coded incorrectly/inefficiently the results can be catastrophic to Jenkins
. **Reduce Repetition of Pipeline Steps:** Combine pipeline steps into single steps as often as possible to reduce the size of the flow-node graph. 
.. For each pipeline step that is executed there is a flow-node graph that allows a pipeline to know what step it is currently executing and when resuming, the flow node graph has to be loaded onto the stack
.. This means whenever doing a series of `echo` or `sh` steps make sure to combine them into a single step or script rather than individual steps

> . **Dealing with Concurrency within pipelines:** Try not to share workspaces across multiple pipeline executions or multiple distinct pipelines. 

Reviewer 3: `Try not to share workspaces across multiple pipeline executions`, whats the alternative if parallels branches want to access worksapce? stash/unstash?

Author: I should add something about this but ideally yes. Only stash/unstash things you need not the whole workspace

---
layout: section
title: Pipeline Best Practices
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:notitle:
:description:
:author: Alex Taylor
:email: jenkinsci-docs@googlegroups.com
:sectanchors:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
:hide-uri-scheme:
:toc:
endif::[]

> = General

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
= Pipeline Best Practices
```

> == Pipeline functions as Glue

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
== General

=== Pipeline functions as Glue
```

> Make sure to use pipeline steps as a way of wiring together a set of actions rather than the main functionality. This means that rather than relying on pipeline functionality(groovy or pipeline steps) to drive the build process forward, it is better to use single steps(such as `sh`) to accomplish multiple parts of the build. The less pipeline functions used, the less memory will consumed up on master. Think of pipeline as a tool to accomplish a build rather than it being the core of that build.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Make sure to use pipeline steps as a way of wiring together a set of actions rather than the main functionality.
This means that rather than relying on pipeline functionality(groovy or pipeline steps) to drive the build process forward, it is better to use single steps(such as `sh`) to accomplish multiple parts of the build.
The less pipeline functions used, the less memory will consumed up on master.
Think of pipeline as a tool to accomplish a build rather than it being the core of that build.
```

Example: Using a single maven build step to drive the build through its build/test/deploy process.

> == Avoid complex Groovy code in Pipeline

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

=== Avoid complex Groovy code in Pipeline

```

== Reduce Repetition of similar pipeline steps: 
Combine pipeline steps into single steps as often as possible to reduce the size of the flow-node graph(pipeline’s way of tracking what step you are currently on). This flow node graph has to be loaded onto the stack and if it is very large it can end up causing memory issues or even a StackOverflow.

Example:
Whenever doing a series of `echo` or `sh` steps make sure to combine them into a single step or script rather than individual steps
== Avoid Calling `Jenkins.getInstance`
This will allow pipelines/scripts make calls as the system user(overall admin) and potentially gain access to any item in the instance. If this is an “approved” method in script security, it will give anyone who can create a job and build it `admin` level access to whatever APIs have been approved. This practice also causes additional API calls on the master which can lead to performance issues or potential memory leaks.

Solution: The best solution would be to work around the calls being made but if they must be done then it would be better to implement a Jenkins plugin which is able to gather the data needed.

> = Shared Libraries

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

== Shared Libraries

```

> == Just say no to overriding built-in pipeline Steps

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== Just say no to overriding built-in pipeline Steps
```

---
layout: section
title: Pipeline Best Practices
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:notitle:
:description:
:author: Alex Taylor
:email: jenkinsci-docs@googlegroups.com
:sectanchors:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
:hide-uri-scheme:
:toc:
endif::[]

= Applying best practices to Pipelines

> 

Reviewer 4: @alexanderrtaylor  
Here is where you should set expectations for what will be in this document, the structure of it, etc. 

For example: 
```suggestion

This guide provides a selection of best practices for pipelines. 
It is intended to point pipeline authors and maintainers is towards patterns that result in better Pipelines and away from pitfalls they might otherwise not be aware of.   

This guide is not meant to be an exhaustive list of all Pipeline best practices. While the guide provides a number of specific examples, is not meant to be a detailed "how-to".

This guide is arranged by area, guideline, then specific examples. 
```

And so on.  This will help people (including reviewers and future contributors) know what to expect.

== General

> === Using Groovy code in Pipelines as glue

Reviewer 4: @alexanderrtaylor @HCloward 
If this is a "how to" guide then `Using...` works here.  If this is set of guidelines, I'd rather we use imperative `Use Groovy code in Pipelines as glue`.   But it depends on what we're shooting for.

> Make sure to use Groovy code as a way of connecting together a set of actions rather than the main functionality. 

Reviewer 5: Use Groovy code to connect a set of actions rather than as the main functionality of your Pipeline.

> In other words, rather than relying on Pipeline functionality(Groovy or Pipeline steps) to drive the build process forward, use single steps (such as `sh`) to accomplish multiple parts of the build. 

Reviewer 5: In other words, instead of relying on Pipeline functionality (Groovy or Pipeline steps) to drive the build process forward, use single steps (such as `sh`) to accomplish multiple parts of the build.

Pipelines, as their complexity increases (the amount of Groovy code, number of steps used, etc.), require more resources (CPU, memory, storage) on the master.
Think of Pipeline as a tool to accomplish a build rather than the core of a build.

Example: Using a single Maven build step to drive the build through its build/test/deploy process.

=== Avoiding complex Groovy code in Pipelines

For a Pipeline, Groovy code *always* executes on master which means using master resources(memory and CPU). 

> Therefore it is critically important to reduce the amount of Groovy code executed by Pipelines (this includes any methods called on classes imported in Pipelines)

Reviewer 5: comma after Therefore - period after closing parenthesis

The following are the most common example Groovy methods to avoid using:

> . *JsonSlurper:* This function (and some other similar ones like XmlSlurper or readFile) can be used to read from a file on disk, parse the data from that file into a JSON object, and inject that object into a Pipeline using a command like JsonSlurper().parseText(readFile("$LOCAL_FILE")). This command loads the local file into memory on the master twice, and if the file is very large or the command is executed frequently, will require a lot of memory.

Reviewer 5: move comma after twice to be after and

. *HttpRequest:* Frequently this command is used to grab data from an external source and store it in a variable. This practice is not ideal because not only is that request coming directly from the master (which could give incorrect results for things like HTTPS requests if the master does not have certificates loaded), but also the response to that request is stored twice.
.. Solution: Use a shell step to perform the HTTP request from the agent, for example using a tool like `curl` or `wget`, as appropriate. If the result must be later in the Pipeline, try to filter the result on the agent side as much as possible so that only the minimum required information must be transmitted back to the Jenkins master.

=== Reducing repetition of similar Pipeline steps

Combine Pipeline steps into single steps as often as possible to reduce the size of the flow-node graph(Pipeline’s way of tracking what step you are currently on). 

> Combine Pipeline steps into single steps as much as possible to reduce the amount of overhead caused by the Pipeline execution engine itself. For example, if you run three shell steps back-to-back, each of those steps has to be started and stopped, requiring connections and resources on the agent and master to be created and cleaned up. However, if you put all of the commands into a single shell step, then only a single step needs to be started and stopped.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This also reduces the amount of overhead caused by the Pipeline execution engine itself. For example, if you run three shell steps back-to-back, each of those steps has to be started and stopped, requiring connections and resources on the agent and master to be created and cleaned up. However, if you put all of the commands into a single shell step, then only a single step needs to be started and stopped.
```

Reviewer 6: Good catch. FWIW, I would get rid of the dupe by deleting the first sentence, since the size of the flow graph is not something users should care about except as a proxy for other things:

> Combine Pipeline steps into single steps as often as possible to reduce the size of the flow-node graph(Pipeline’s way of tracking what step you are currently on).

> Combine Pipeline steps into single steps as much as possible to reduce the amount of overhead caused by the Pipeline execution engine itself. For example, if you run three shell steps back-to-back, each of those steps has to be started and stopped, requiring connections and resources on the agent and master to be created and cleaned up, but if you put all of the commands into a single shell step, then only a single step needs to be started and stopped.

Reviewer 5: For example, if you run three shell steps back-to-back, each of those steps has to be started and stopped, requiring connections and resources on the agent and master to be created and cleaned up. However, if you put all of the commands into a single shell step, then only a single step needs to be started and stopped.

Example:
Instead of creating a series of  `echo` or `sh` steps, combine them into a single step or script.

> === Avoid calls to `Jenkins.getInstance`

Reviewer 5: Avoiding calls to `Jenkins.getInstance`

Using Jenkins.instance or its accessor methods in a Pipeline or shared library indicates a code misuse within that Pipeline/shared library. Using Jenkins APIs from an unsandboxed shared library means that the shared library is both a shared library and a kind of Jenkins plugin. You need to be very careful when interacting with Jenkins APIs from a Pipeline to avoid severe security and performance issues. If you must use Jenkins APIs in your build, the recommended approach is to create a minimal plugin in Java that implements a safe wrapper around the Jenkins API you want to access using Pipeline's Step API. Using Jenkins APIs from a sandboxed Jenkinsfile directly means that you have probably had to whitelist methods that allow sandbox protections to be bypassed by anyone who can modify a Pipeline, which is a significant security risk. The whitelisted method is run as the System user, having overall admin permissions, which can lead to developers possessing higher permissions than intended.

> Solution: The best solution would be to work around the calls being made but if they must be done then it would be better to implement a Jenkins plugin which is able to gather the data needed.

Reviewer 5: comma after made

== Using shared libraries

> === Do not override built-in Pipeline Steps

Reviewer 5: should steps be capitalized here - I do not see it capitalized anywhere else

Wherever possible stay away from customized/overwritten Pipeline steps. 
Overriding built-in Pipeline Steps is the process of using shared libraries to overwrite the standard Pipeline APIs like `sh` or `timeout`. 
This process is dangerous because the Pipeline APIs can change at any time causing custom code to break or give different results than expected. 
When custom code breaks because of Pipeline API changes, troubleshooting is difficult because even if the custom code has not changed, it may not work the same after an API update.

> So even if custom code has not changed that does not mean that after an API update it will keep working the same. 

Reviewer 5: comma after changed
remove the "that" after "mean"

Lastly, because of the ubiquitous use of these steps throughout Pipelines, if something is coded incorrectly/inefficiently the results can be catastrophic to Jenkins.

=== Avoiding large global variable declaration files

Having large variable declaration files can require large amounts of memory for little to no benefit, because the file is loaded for every Pipeline whether the variables are needed or not. Creating small variable files that contain only variables relevant to the current execution is recommended.

> It would be better to only load variables which are relevant to the current execution.

Reviewer 6: Should this sentence be deleted as a dupe of the previous one?
```suggestion
```

> It would be better to load variables which are relevant to the current execution.

Reviewer 5: It would be better to only load variables which are relevant to the current execution.

== Answering additional FAQs

=== Dealing with Concurrency in Pipelines

Try not to share workspaces across multiple Pipeline executions or multiple distinct Pipelines. 
This practice can lead to either unexpected file modification within each Pipeline or workspace renaming.

Ideally, shared volumes/disks are mounted in a separate place and the files are copied from that place to the current workspace.
Then when the build is done the files can be copied back if there were updates done.

Build in distinct containers which create needed resources from scratch(cloud-type agents work great for this). 
Building these containers will ensure that the build process begins at the start every time and is easily repeatable.
If building containers will not work, disable concurrency on the Pipeline or use the Lockable Resources Plugin to lock the workspace when it is running so that no other builds can use it while it is locked.
**WARNING**: Disabling concurrency or locking the workspace when it is running can cause Pipelines to become blocked when waiting on resources if those resources are arbitrarily locked.

> **Also be aware that both of these slow down the time to results of builds over being able to use unique resources for each job**

Reviewer 5: Also,  be aware that both of these methods have slower time to results of builds than using unique resources for each job

=== Using @NonCPS

> Pipeline code is CPS-transformed so that Pipelines are able to resume after a Jenkins restart. Some Groovy expressions do not work correctly as a result of this transformation. See http://jenkins.io/redirect/pipeline-cps-method-mismatches for more details and some examples of things that may be problematic. If necessary, you can use the @NonCPS annotation to disable the CPS transformation for a specific method whose body would not execute correctly if it were CPS-transformed. Just be aware that this also means the Groovy function will have to restart completely since it is not transformed.

Reviewer 7: I would prefer to make the first reference to an acronym (like 'CPS') include the expansion of that acronym.  However, your opening text in the paragraph was so good at describing the value for the user that I delayed the explanation of the acronym into a later paragraph.  I copied the original text from [Kohsuke's 2014 blog post](https://jenkins.io/blog/2014/12/03/workflow-plugin-is-1-0/) and modified it to use current terminology.

You are welcome to reject the entire suggestion if you feel it is too dramatic a change.  I think the material is great, with or without this suggestion.

```suggestion
Pipeline code is CPS-transformed so that Pipelines are able to resume after a Jenkins restart.
That is, while the pipeline is running your script, you can shut down Jenkins or lose connectivity to an agent. 
When it comes back, Jenkins remembers what it was doing and your pipeline script resumes execution as if it were never interrupted.
A technique known as "link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuation-passing_style[continuation-passing style (CPS)]"  execution plays a key role in resuming Pipelines.

However, some Groovy expressions do not work correctly as a result of CPS transformation.
See link:http://jenkins.io/redirect/pipeline-cps-method-mismatches[Pipeline CPS method mismatches] for more details and some examples of things that may be problematic.

If necessary, you can use the `@NonCPS` annotation to disable the CPS transformation for a specific method whose body would not execute correctly if it were CPS-transformed.
Just be aware that this also means the Groovy function will have to restart completely since it is not transformed.
```

> **Note that asynchronous Pipeline steps (such as sh and sleep) are always CPS-transformed, and may not be used inside of a method annotated with @NonCPS.**

Reviewer 5: **NOTE:** Asynchronous Pipeline steps (such as `sh` and `sleep`) are always CPS-transformed and may not be used inside of a method annotated with @NonCPS.

---
layout: section
title: Pipeline Best Practices
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:notitle:
:description:
:author: Alex Taylor
:email: jenkinsci-docs@googlegroups.com
:sectanchors:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
:hide-uri-scheme:
:toc:
endif::[]

= Pipeline Best Practices

== General

> === Pipeline functions as Glue

Reviewer 6: What is a Pipeline function? If you mean "everything but steps", I would maybe say "Pipeline scripts" or "Groovy code in Pipelines".

> Make sure to use pipeline steps as a way of wiring together a set of actions rather than the main functionality. 

Reviewer 6: What do you mean? In general, I think using Pipeline steps is fine. You can go overboard with highly-specific "publisher" steps, but the real concern IMO is to avoid arbitrary Groovy code. I guess what you mean is using things like `readFile` and then processing that data in the Pipeline rather than doing the processing in a `sh` step and only sending the needed results to the Pipeline? If so, I might reword this to something like this:

> Pipeline is intended to be used to orchestrate your build. Prefer using `sh` steps for arbitrary data processing instead of processing data in your Pipeline script itself using a combination of Pipeline steps and Groovy code.

Also FWIW I think you should capitalize Pipeline throughout the article, since we are talking about Jenkins Pipeline, not the general concept of a pipeline.

This means that rather than relying on pipeline functionality(groovy or pipeline steps) to drive the build process forward, it is better to use single steps(such as `sh`) to accomplish multiple parts of the build. 

> The less pipeline functions used, the less memory will consumed up on master. 

Reviewer 6: By itself, I don't think this claim makes sense. Running a Pipeline function does not in and of itself require more memory. Maybe rephrase to something like this:

```
As the complexity of Pipeline scripts increase, they require more resources (CPU, memory, storage) on the master.
```

Think of Pipeline as a tool to accomplish a build rather than it being the core of that build.

Example: Using a single maven build step to drive the build through its build/test/deploy process.

=== Avoid complex Groovy code in Pipeline

Groovy code within a Pipeline uses master resources(memory and CPU). 
For a Pipeline, groovy code *always* executes on master which is why it does use master resources. 
Because of this, the most critical action item is to reduce the number of groovy calls that need to be made (this includes the many imports of groovy methods being used). 
The most common example methods are things such as:

> . *JsonSlurper:* This function (and other similar ones like XmlSlurper or ReadFile) would be to read in some file which is on disk into a JSON object within the Pipeline so it would look something like this: `def JsonFile = new JsonSlurper().parseText(readFile("$LOCAL_FILE")))`. The issue here is that this loads that file into memory 2x on the master and if that file is very large or this command is being done very often then it will drain a lot of unnecessary memory

Author: yeah but at the time of the execution there is a large double allocation that could be saved by doing a shell step instead. Just wanted it known that whatever the file size is means double the memory used(maybe even 3x?)

> .. Solution: Instead of using JsonSlurper, use a shell step and return the standard out. This shell would look something like this: `def JsonReturn = sh label: '', returnStdout: true, script: 'echo "$LOCAL_FILE"| jq "."'`. This will use agent resources to read the file and even parse the file with a good `jq` filter

Author: So the jq command should shrink the file and grab the values they want out of it. Most people that use the jsonslurper want a map of variables but they may not want the whole file. Then they use that to do things like set ENV variables inside of the pipeline or make decisions on what code to execute within the pipeline itself

> .. Solution: Instead of using JsonSlurper, use a shell step and return the standard out. This shell would look something like this: `def JsonReturn = sh label: '', returnStdout: true, script: 'echo "$LOCAL_FILE"| jq "."'`. This will use agent resources to read the file and even parse the file with a good `jq` filter

Author: For me this is not really a "problem/solution" type of document but more to call out when people are using bad methods and how they should fix them. This doc is intended more to be once you are already using pipelines extensively and have already set most things up rather than a `how to`

. *HttpRequest:* Many times this would be used to grab data from an external source and store it into a variable. This is not a good idea to use because not only is that request coming directly from the master(which could give incorrect results for things like HTTPS requests if the master does not have certificates loaded) but also the return is again stored twice.
.. Solution: Again using the shell step but this time with a `curl` command is the best direction to go.Then have the request come from master and also the data size can be shrunk with filtering.

=== Reduce Repetition of similar Pipeline steps: 

Combine Pipeline steps into single steps as often as possible to reduce the size of the flow-node graph(Pipeline’s way of tracking what step you are currently on). 

> This flow node graph has to be loaded onto the stack and if it is very large it can end up causing memory issues or even a StackOverflow.

Author: The only reason I mentioned the StackOverflow is because I saw it happen when trying to resume a pipeline on the master. But I do like your way better

Solution: The best solution would be to work around the calls being made but if they must be done then it would be better to implement a Jenkins plugin which is able to gather the data needed.

== Shared Libraries

=== Just say no to overriding built-in Pipeline Steps

> Wherever possible stay away from customized/overwritten Pipeline steps. 

Author: I changed the header to be this and I do not want to hard/fast say no to this because there are some use cases I think

This is the process where the standard Pipeline APIs like `sh` or `timeout` are overwritten using shared libraries. 
It is dangerous to do this because the Pipeline APIs can change at any time causing custom code to break or give different results than expected. 

> These changes can also become difficult to troubleshoot when something is breaking or causing issues. 

Reviewer 5: When custom code breaks because of Pipeline API changes, troubleshooting is difficult because even if the custom code has not changed, it may not work the same after an API update.

So even if custom code has not changed that does not mean that after an API update it will keep working the same. 

> Lastly, because of the ubiquitous use of these steps throughout Pipelines, if something is coded incorrectly/inefficiently the results can be catastrophic to Jenkins.

Reviewer 5: nice word - ubiquitous

> === Avoid large global variable declaration files

Reviewer 5: Avoiding large global variable declaration files

> Having large variable declaration file will load every variable for every Pipeline and depending on concurrency can end up using large amounts of memory for very little to no benefit. 

Reviewer 5: "Having large variable declaration file . . " == Having large variable declaration files can require large amounts of memory for little to no benefit, because the file is loaded for every Pipeline whether the variables are needed or not. Creating small variable files that contain only variables relevant to the current execution is recommended.

It would be better to load variables which are relevant to the current execution.

> === Avoid very large shared libraries

Reviewer 5: Avoiding very large shared libraries

> This will load the same shared library per-job that is currently executing which can lead to large memory overhead. 

Reviewer 5: Using large shared libraries in Pipelines requires checking out a very large file before the Pipeline can start and loading the same shared library per job that is currently executing, which can lead to increased memory overhead and slower execution time.

This can also cause a slow down of every Pipeline since it will need to checkout a very large file every time before starting.

> == Additional FAQs

Reviewer 5: Answering additional FAQs

> === How do I deal with Concurrency in Pipelines?

Reviewer 5: Dealing with Concurrency in Pipelines

Try not to share workspaces across multiple pipeline executions or multiple distinct pipelines. 
This can lead to either unexpected file modification within each pipeline or each workspace will get renamed unexpectedly

Ideally shared volumes/disks are mounted somewhere else and the files are copied from one place to the current workspace. 
Then when the build is done it can be copied back

Build in distinct containers which create needed resources from scratch(cloud-type agents work great for this). 
This will ensure that the build process happens from scratch every time and is easily repeatable. 

> If that is not going to work then make sure that either concurrency is disabled on the pipeline or use the [lockable resources plugin](https://plugins.jenkins.io/lockable-resources) to lock up the workspace when running on it and no other builds can use while it is locked.

Reviewer 6: I really hesitate to recommend lockable-resources in a best practices guide, since it seems to cause a ton of problems for people, especially as they scale.

Reviewer 2: how does it cause issues? the ephemeral locks functionality released last week fixed the issues we had with it: https://github.com/jenkinsci/lockable-resources-plugin/releases

Author: If people know what they are doing, then I think lockable resources is OK. The issue comes when people just use it arbitrarily. Maybe I should add a caution here as well though?

Author: @timja mostly the issues come when people lock things and dont realize they are locking them

> This can lead to either unexpected file modification within each Pipeline or each workspace will get renamed unexpectedly

Reviewer 5: "This" == This practice can lead to either unexpected file modification within each Pipeline or workspace renaming.

**Be aware that both of these slow down the time to results of builds though over being able to freely share**

> === How do I use @NonCPS? 

Author: What if I add a "caution" indicating such?

I wanted to provide some context towards what NonCPS can do without making it too complex. This article is meant to lead someone towards something official when they are doing bad practices rather than stackoverflow where there is none of this caution. That is the reason I left this in there

> Ideally shared volumes/disks are mounted somewhere else and the files are copied from one place to the current workspace. 

Reviewer 5: Ideally, shared volumes/disks are mounted in a separate place and the files are copied from that place to the current workspace.

> Then when the build is done it can be copied back

Reviewer 5: This sentence needs a period and commas after "Then" and "done". Not sure here what "it" is referring to?

> This will ensure that the build process happens from scratch every time and is easily repeatable. 

Reviewer 5: "This" == Building these containers will ensure that the build process begins at the start every time and is easily repeatable.

> If that is not going to work then make sure that either concurrency is disabled on the pipeline or use the [lockable resources plugin](https://plugins.jenkins.io/lockable-resources) to lock up the workspace when running on it and no other builds can use while it is locked. Be warned that this can cause Pipelines to become blocked waiting on resources if they are arbitrarily blocked waiting on those locked resources.

Reviewer 5: If building containers will not work, disable concurrency on the Pipeline or use the Lockable Resources Plugin to lock the workspace when it is running so that no other builds can use it while it is locked. 
WARNING: Disabling concurrency or locking the workspace when it is running can cause Pipelines to become blocked when waiting on resources if those resources are arbitrarily locked.

> **Be aware that both of these slow down the time to results of builds though over being able to freely share**

Reviewer 5: I am not sure what this sentence is trying to say. The methods described above can slow down build results - "though over being able to freely share" ??

> === How do I use @NonCPS? 

Reviewer 5: Using @nonCPS
